+++
date = "2016-02-13"
draft = false
title = "Useful Details"
tags = ["HRP","Trekking","Preparation"]

+++

In this final article regarding the preparations of the HRP I will
talk about some small details that could help you for your own trip.
Don't expect too much since this site only contains some scattered
informations.


# Cooking

I used methylated spirits for cooking and I had no problems with
finding fuel.  If you are using gas it is not difficult to find camping
gaz catridges but other brands or systems could be difficult.

As a windscreen I folded some aluminium foil.  This worked for two
weeks but then it got broken and I had to buy new aluminium foil in
the next town.  I recommend either bringing some reserve windscreens
or building a more durable version from an aluminium grill dish.  My
food choices can be found [here]({{< relref "food-supply.md" >}}).


# Sleeping

I already talked about temperatures in the [gear list]({{< relref
"gear-list.md" >}}) article.  As mentioned there you have to be
careful with temperature statements as there can be cold or warm
years.  I had a sleeping bag with a comfort temperature of 4Â°C
combined with a silk sleeping bag inlet.  For most nights this was
fine but there were some where I had to put on all by clothes and it
didn't feel too comfortable.

<center>{{< figure src="/img/hrp/nice_cabane_600.jpg" caption="Refuge Cinquantenari: A comfortable unstuffed hut." >}}</center>

I made use of the unstuffed huts several times.  Some of them are
really comfortable and in good shape.  Sometimes you don't have
that much luck and you only find some dirty beton bunker.  Either way
one advice:  Hide your food inside your closed backpack at night.
There could be unwanted visiters at night.

<center>{{< figure src="/img/hrp/maus_600.jpg" caption="Hide your food in unstuffed huts!" >}}</center>

If you sleep in a tent there will be a chance you get disturbed by
larger animals.  This time they won't try to steel your food but they
can be annoying nonetheless.  Beware of the cattle!  The most feared
kind is the basque horse with its big bell deciding to graze right
next to your tent while you would prefer sleeping.  If you search for
a nice place to pitch your tent you should aim for a cattle free night
;).

<center>{{< figure src="/img/hrp/horse_with_bell_600.JPG" caption="Beware of the bell." >}}</center>



# Hendaye

If you arrive late in Hendaye: Close to the starting point of the trip
I found a supermarket that was open till 21 o clock.  If you follow
the HRP you will find a suitable place for pitching a tent shortly
after leaving the town.

<center>{{< figure src="/img/hrp/hendaye_tent_600.JPG" caption="First night of the tour with a beautiful sunset near Hendaye." >}}</center>
